Blog. Central Reproduction.

I’ve always been amazed by the immune system. An absolutely astounding piece of machinery so complex and intense yet so responsive and adaptable. These cells. These macrophages and neutrophils. Natural killer cells and helper cells. All of them administered by the body, defend the body. They will fight to the death for the body.

In retrospect; The Law of Survival has kicked in very clearly. It can easily be observed - as Bohr’s atomic model resembles the solar system - that a human body resembles a nationstate. Of course, there are vast differences; however, their inner goals remain the same: “must survive”. In addition, white blood cells have no ability to sexually reproduce nor gain any possibility of progenic advantages when becoming a cancer to the body. In human societies, they (the police, army, politicians…) may in fact gain something from a coup.

As we climb the evolutionary ladder I can not help but think that the nationstate will approach the body regarding its workings. One of the few elements I think is holding us back is the tribalistic and individualistic form of reproduction: sexual reproduction.

Currently, welfare states may - suboptimally - assign resources to cells (individuals) that are basically not contributing to the collective. They are a cost, and this cost lowers the amount left to keep the nationstate coherent and working. It is as a cancer of the body. It eats resources freely, and grows. Eventually, it kills the body and thereby also itself.

All non-contributors can under The Law of Survival be considered detrimental. However, due to their ability to leech: they can acquire higher progenic statuses for themselves. Most societies have methods of dealing with this by assigning people to jobs or simply not aiding them. The last option may actually result in a total detriment to the nationstate if the individual at hand is useful but in a dire time.

I think the optimization to be central reproduction. It can be observed in the body, - where white blood cells are constructed in the bone marrow - and in ant and various other superorganic insect colonies - where the queen mandates the creation of all entities. The hypothesis for humans is that the nationstate will some day acquire the realm of reproduction. They will reproduce humans in cloning vats of some sort. A more practical method is complete castration with in vitro fertilization of selected healthy genetic sets.
